okay so there are these laptops out
there that are
really good like really really good but
they're not particularly well known
like these are devices that will be
recommended by laptop
enthusiasts and if you visit my discord
the sweaty laptop nerds there will often
recommend these devices and if you hop
into reddit and you hop
into like a laptop focused subreddit
again these devices will pop up and just
be aggressively recommended and the
reason being the reason why they're so
popular amongst the
enthusiasts of this laptop world is
because they have
very good performance for the money like
incredibly good performance for the
money especially when you compare it to
the major kind of name brands out there
but the reason why they're not well
known and the reason why so people
so few people use them is because they
don't market
they just really don't spend their
dollars their revenue on
marketing at least not to the degree
that a lot of the major brands out there
do like if you look at
acer asus razer msi
alienware like you recognize all those
brands because you see them everywhere
they're plastered all over your twitch
streams they're plastered over
esports events like they're just you
recognize those names
these are made by a company called
tongfeng
they are it's made by one company and
it's
distributed or sold through multiple
vendors around the world and you might
recognize some of them if you're in the
states you might recognize electronics
or main gear or origin in europe they
got xmg and in asia they got a whole
bunch of
kind of boutique resellers that resell
these tongfeng devices so in this video
i will talk about what makes them good
what makes them so special what makes
them
so attractive to the laptop enthusiasts
but i also want to talk about
why i don't use one i mean if they're so
good
right why don't i use one and it's not
some like weird twisted
reason it's it's particular to me but
we'll get into it now
uh let's talk about performance first
because that is what makes these things
so special
the reason why they have such good
performance is because these companies
or the one company tongfen they cool
their chips
very aggressively like we're talking
vents everywhere
back side bottom lots of vents
and they have fast fans to push a lot of
air through these laptops and all this
cooling potential
allows these devices to have higher
clock speeds and sometimes even faster
gpus so
these laptops tend to benchmark really
well especially if you configure them
with amd's
ryzen chips and if you're an owner of
one of these laptops if you're
a member of this secret laptop club you
will have
one of the best performing devices on
the market and there's
other benefits they tend to have big
batteries
like for the size of the laptop these
guys will pack in like 90
95 watt hour batteries in there they're
big like near the upper limit of what
you're even allowed to put into
a laptop that goes on a plane and it
provides pretty decent battery life
right it's going to be a gaming laptop
you're not going to get 10 hours on a
charge but these tend to have bigger
batteries than a lot of the name brand
competitors out there and then if you do
need to charge it up you plug it up in
the back which is something i always
like
the ac adapter goes in the back and just
keeps your workspace on the left and
right of the laptop
clear um there's other stuff like they
don't have bloatware on these devices
and they're easy to open up so you can
repair or replace as you need
and they're also very often quite
customizable like not just like the cpu
and ram choice
but you can get like different types of
thermal paste again
these are all things that enthusiasts
care about and enthusiasts would
appreciate
and they still charge a reasonable price
for their laptops
but i want to move this conversation
over to the topic of why i personally
don't use
one of these devices and it boils down
to that performance difference i was
talking about
so yes these have better performance
than some of the name brand stuff out
there
but that extra performance comes at a
cost
number one fan noise tends to be loud
you can control it in software but when
i'm playing games
or if i'm editing videos i can't use my
regular earbuds
or the built-in speakers it needs to
have an enclosed headset
to block out fan noise and secondly it
forces the design aesthetic to be this
kind of perforated block of laptop it's
not the worst thing in the world right
there's definitely uglier devices out
there
but you compare something like a razer
blade to this like one
looks like they had aesthetics in mind
and one
doesn't now louder fan noise and a less
attractive design would be a pretty good
trade-off
if the extra performance was significant
but if i look at my real world
usage the difference between a razer
blade like a relatively
slower clocked system compared to the
faster electronics device
the difference is noticeable but it's
not substantial right we're talking a
few seconds of render time and a few
frames and games
it really isn't worth it to me just to
switch over to these devices for that
extra benchmark performance the other
thing
is the keyboard there are two main
keyboard variants with the tongfeng
chassis
the first one is this one here it's got
this single
rectangular cutout for the keyboard
right and i think it helps to keep the
manufacturing cost down because they
have to just mill out
one big rectangle instead of lots of
little squares it's just
less machine time but this keyboard is
incredibly hard for me to get used to
even after months of using it
i still find that i make a lot of typos
and frequently have accidental key
presses
when i'm in games now this keyboard is
shared amongst
several of these devices they do have an
alternate type
and individually cut out chiclet style
some of these xmg devices here have it
these are better to me than the first
type but they're still not great they
feel stiff
and weirdly unresponsive when i'm typing
on it and i get it i am very particular
and picky about
my laptop keyboards but it's important
to me because i don't use
external keyboards and a keyboard that i
personally dislike
is kind of a deal breaker for me when it
comes to choosing these laptops
and the design aesthetic as well as the
louder fans
don't really help but my overall take on
the tongfeng
family of laptops is that they're really
good in terms of performance for the
money they are almost impossible to beat
but they're not for everyone right
oftentimes when you hop into a subreddit
or a discord channel of some sort
you're going to get shoved right down
your throat by tongfeng
it's the best it's the best why would
you buy anything else
it comes from a good place right those
guys are enthusiasts and they
they want you to get what they like but
what they like doesn't necessarily align
with what you need
right so just don't don't be swayed by
the sweat
um okay in terms of brands i like
electronics i think they do it the best
in north america i also like
xmg a lot they're in europe uh asian
brands
i have no idea i've been sent a few but
i can't i i don't know the pricing after
the exchange rate but
in north america uh the two other brands
i would say
don't do it as good as electronics so
origin and main gear their stuff tends
to be a little bit cheaper
but yeah software is better particularly
the bios is better if the electronics
and xmg
i think these two companies i'm not sure
but i think they
communicate and share bio stuff and that
does make a difference when it comes to
performance tweaks and stuff okay that's
the video on the secret laptop club hope
you guys enjoyed it thumbs if you liked
it subs you loved it
see you guys next time
[Music]